# What is Linux?

- Linux is the best-known and most-used open source operating system

- It's a software that sits underneath of all other software on a computer

- Major role of this software is to receive requests from programs & relay those to computer’s hardware

# Difference between Unix & Linux

- Unix is considered as mother of most operating systems

- Unix was invented by Bell labs back in 1965.

- Linux is nothing but the clone of Unix which is written by Linux Torvalds

- People do confuse a lot between the terms "Unix & Linux" and they tend ask questions like

    * Is Unix different from Linux?
    * Are Linux & Unix the same thing?
    * Is Linux like Unix?
    * Is Linux built on Unix?

- Here is the answer to all such questions

    * Linux & Unix are different but they do have a relationship with each other as Linux is derived from Unix

# How does Linux differ from other operating systems ?

- In many ways, Linux is similar to other operating systems you may have used before, such as Windows, macOS etc.

- Like other operating systems, Linux also has both graphical & command line interface

- But why Linux is different from other operating systems? 

    * First, and perhaps most important reason is `Linux is open source software`
    * Linux code is free & available to public to view, edit & contribute
    * There are many OS distributions derived from Linux core source code some of them are

        - Fedora
        - Centos
        - Suse(enterprise)
        - Ubuntu
        - MacOS(enterprise)
        - IOS(enterprise) & Android(enterprise)

# Who uses Linux ?

- You probably already using Linux, whether you know it or not

- Between two-thirds of webpages on Internet are generated by servers running Linux

- Companies & individuals choose Linux because it's 

    * secure
    * flexible
    * you can receive excellent support from large community of users

- In addition companies like SUSE & Red Hat offers commercial support as well

- Many devices you probably own uses linux, such as

    * Android phones
    * tablets
    * IOS
    * Chromebooks
    * digital storage devices
    * cameras also
    * Your car has Linux running under the hood, Hence Linux is everywhere